hi this is Jeff Wong with expert village
and today we're going to learn the
basics of maintaining your vehicle in
this next section we're going to be
looking at the tire and looking at the
tread wear and how it relates to the
alignment of the car so if you look here
you can see a pretty new tire and if you
take note inside the tire that are
slightly raised bumps both in the center
and along the edge of the tire these are
the tire wear marks when these wear
marks are reached when the tire is worn
down to these marks the tire is close to
needing to be replaced now if your tire
does not have these wear marks or you
want to check a section of the tire that
does not have these marks available for
the correct depth you can use a penny
now if you take the penny and you notice
the top of the hairline of Abraham
Lincoln on the penny you can take the
penny and turn it upside down and put it
inside the tread now if the tread is
shallower than the gap from the edge of
the penny the Abraham Lincoln's head the
tread has been worn down too much and
the tire probably needs to be replaced
so you can see along the inside of this
tire that some of the tread is shallower
than this gap on the penny but towards
the center of the tire there's still
plenty of tread left so if you see where
along the inside and the outside of the
tire with very little wear along the
inside your tire may be under inflated
causing the inside to sink or be pushed
into the tire now if you only see wear
or heavy wear along the middle of the
tire but the outside of the tires are
relatively unborn your tire may be
overinflated or have too much air in it
so you may need to adjust your tire
pressure accordingly now if your tread
wear is heavy on either the inside or
the outside or maybe one corner
your vehicle on only one tire or maybe
just the front or maybe just the rear
tires you may want to bring your car in
and have the alignment checked